README.md, before:

# semitki


[![Shipping faster with ZenHub](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ZenHubIO/support/master/zenhub-badge.png)](https://www.zenhub.com)
[![Codeship Status for semitki/semitki](https://app.codeship.com/projects/2b89f950-cac9-0134-a140-7e371e5d68a3/status?branch=master)](https://app.codeship.com/projects/199702)


## Notes

Python rest_framework_jwt module throws `Invalid payload` beacause
missing username in Facebook social authentication, the module is
patched to get around this validation. But better to check and fix it
ASAP.

Patches are locates in `semitki/patches` directory and applied at
container build.


## Requirements

Front end relies heavily in JavaScript 1.6 (ECMAScript 6), web browser
requiremenst follow, any version below stated here or not listed, please
check the compatibility table link.

* Firefox => 52
* Chrome => 56
* Edge => 13
* Safari => 10
* iOS => 10

[Compatibility table](http://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es6/)


## Development setup

Clone the code from github


    git clone git@github.com:semitki/semitki.git


### Settings

Copy the sample configuration files and edit accordingly.


    cp semitki/variables.env.sample semitki/variables.env
    cp semitki/front/config.js.sample semitki/front/config.js


### Tooling

Besides the code you'll need various tools.


  * [docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker)
  * [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
  * [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/)
  * [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/)
  * [Bower](https://bower.io/)
  * [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/)


## Build container image


    cd semitki
    docker build -t semitki_app .


## Run in Docker with docker-compose


    cd semitki
    docker-compose up


Browse the API at http://127.0.0.1:8000 and the web frontend at
http://127.0.0.1:9080


### Backend development

We use:

* [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
* [django-rest-framework](http://www.django-rest-framework.org/)
* [django-rest-framework-scoial-oauth2](https://github.com/PhilipGarnero/django-rest-framework-social-oauth2)
* [django-rest-framework-jwt](http://getblimp.github.io/django-rest-framework-jwt/)


Run the API


    cd semitki/api
    virtualenv -p $(which python2.7) ENV
    . ENV/bin/activate
    pip install -U pip
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    ENV/bin/python manage runserver 0.0.0.0:8000
    ENV/bin/python manage migrate
    ENV/bin/python manage migrations sonetworks


### Importing models from non-Django code


    import os
    import django
    import django.settings

    os.environ.setdefault("DJANGO_SETTINGS_DEFAULT",
      "sonetworks.settings")
    settings.configure()
    django.setup()




### Frontend development


    npm install -g bower grunt-cli
    cd semitki/front
    npm install
    bower install
    grunt


Running grunt will create a `semitki/frontend/dist` directory which
should be accesable by an HTTP server. When running with docker-compose
`dist` gets mounted in the path `/usr/share/nginx/html` within the web
container.


## Django App


If running in Docker, execute a bash shell within the container running
the django app.


    docker exec -it semitki_app_1 bash


Once in a shell running within the environment of the web application,
you can run commands of manage.py for the Django app.



    ENV/bin/python manage.py createsuperuser


## Misc notes


### Avoid received a naive datetime while time zone support is enabled

Set `TIME_ZONE = False` in `settings.py` and use something like the code
below for date comparison.


    from django.utils.timezone import utc

    datetime.utcnow().replace(tzinfo=utc)

Commit message:

UPDATE README.md with guidelines to install new bower components

README.md, after:

# semitki


[![Shipping faster with ZenHub](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ZenHubIO/support/master/zenhub-badge.png)](https://www.zenhub.com)
[![Codeship Status for semitki/semitki](https://app.codeship.com/projects/2b89f950-cac9-0134-a140-7e371e5d68a3/status?branch=master)](https://app.codeship.com/projects/199702)


## Notes

Python rest_framework_jwt module throws `Invalid payload` beacause
missing username in Facebook social authentication, the module is
patched to get around this validation. But better to check and fix it
ASAP.

Patches are locates in `semitki/patches` directory and applied at
container build.


## Requirements

Front end relies heavily in JavaScript 1.6 (ECMAScript 6), web browser
requiremenst follow, any version below stated here or not listed, please
check the compatibility table link.

* Firefox => 52
* Chrome => 56
* Edge => 13
* Safari => 10
* iOS => 10

[Compatibility table](http://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es6/)


## Development setup

Clone the code from github


    git clone git@github.com:semitki/semitki.git


### Settings

Copy the sample configuration files and edit accordingly.


    cp semitki/variables.env.sample semitki/variables.env
    cp semitki/front/config.js.sample semitki/front/config.js


### Tooling

Besides the code you'll need various tools.


  * [docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker)
  * [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
  * [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/)
  * [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/)
  * [Bower](https://bower.io/)
  * [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/)


## Build container image


    cd semitki
    docker build -t semitki_app .


## Run in Docker with docker-compose


    cd semitki
    docker-compose up


Browse the API at http://127.0.0.1:8000 and the web frontend at
http://127.0.0.1:9080


### Backend development

We use:

* [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
* [django-rest-framework](http://www.django-rest-framework.org/)
* [django-rest-framework-scoial-oauth2](https://github.com/PhilipGarnero/django-rest-framework-social-oauth2)
* [django-rest-framework-jwt](http://getblimp.github.io/django-rest-framework-jwt/)


Run the API


    cd semitki/api
    virtualenv -p $(which python2.7) ENV
    . ENV/bin/activate
    pip install -U pip
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    ENV/bin/python manage runserver 0.0.0.0:8000
    ENV/bin/python manage migrate
    ENV/bin/python manage migrations sonetworks


### Importing models from non-Django code


    import os
    import django
    import django.settings

    os.environ.setdefault("DJANGO_SETTINGS_DEFAULT",
      "sonetworks.settings")
    settings.configure()
    django.setup()




### Frontend development


    npm install -g bower grunt-cli
    cd semitki/front
    npm install
    bower install
    grunt


Running grunt will create a `semitki/frontend/dist` directory which
should be accesable by an HTTP server. When running with docker-compose
`dist` gets mounted in the path `/usr/share/nginx/html` within the web
container.


#### Adding new bower components

Every time you install a new component through bower, make sure to add
`--save` option in order to update `bower.json` with the new dependency.


    bower install --save
    git commit -m"My new bower component" front/bower.json




## Django App


If running in Docker, execute a bash shell within the container running
the django app.


    docker exec -it semitki_app_1 bash


Once in a shell running within the environment of the web application,
you can run commands of manage.py for the Django app.



    ENV/bin/python manage.py createsuperuser


## Misc notes


### Avoid received a naive datetime while time zone support is enabled

Set `TIME_ZONE = False` in `settings.py` and use something like the code
below for date comparison.


    from django.utils.timezone import utc

    datetime.utcnow().replace(tzinfo=utc)
